THE YANGTZE RIVER HOLDS
THE KEY TO CHINA'S FUTURE.
FLOWING OVER 6,000
KILOMETERS FROM ITS SOURCE
ON THE TIBETAN PLATEAU
TO ITS SHANGHAI DELTA,
IT'S THE MOST USED
WATERWAY IN THE WORLD.
AND ONE OF THE
MOST DEADLY.
IN THE LAST CENTURY ALONE
ITS FLOODS HAVE KILLED
OVER 300,000 PEOPLE.
NOW MAN HAS STRUCK BACK
WITH AN ENGINEERING PROJECT
DESIGNED TO CORRAL THE
RIVER'S DESTRUCTIVE FORCES
AND BRING IT FIRMLY
UNDER HUMAN CONTROL.
THE THREE GORGES DAM IS SO
LARGE IT'S VISIBLE FROM SPACE.
DESIGNED TO PRODUCE
ENOUGH ELECTRICITY TO POWER
A TENTH OF CHINA'S TOTAL
NEEDS, THE DAM FEEDS THE
FRENZIED EXPANSION OF INLAND
MEGA CITIES SUCH AS CHONGQING,
THE FASTEST GROWING URBAN
CENTER ON THE PLANET.
BUT THIS PROGRESS HAS
COME AT A HUGE COST.
UPSTREAM OF THE DAM
THE THREE GORGES REGION
HAS BEEN
DRASTICALLY ALTERED
AND SOME TWO MILLION PEOPLE
FORCED TO FLEE THEIR HOMES.
DOWNSTREAM AT THE MOUTH OF
THE RIVER THE IMPACT OF THE DAM
IS ERODING THE COASTLINE
AT AN ALARMING RATE
THREATENING THE VERY
FOUNDATIONS UPON WHICH
SHANGHAI'S BOOMING
ECONOMY IS BUILT.
THIS MASSIVE PUSH FOR GROWTH IS
RISKING ENVIRONMENTAL DISASTER.
CHINA'S GREATEST RIVER FACES
A CRITICAL NEW CHALLENGE.
CHINA IS WITNESSING
AN ECONOMIC GROWTH
THE PACE OF WHICH THE
WORLD HAS NEVER SEEN.
OLD AND YOUNG,
RICH AND POOR,
ITS PEOPLE HAVE ENDURED
MUCH IN THE NAME OF PROGRESS.
MANY HAVE BENEFITED FROM
THE COUNTRY'S NEW WEALTH.
OTHERS HAVE
BEEN LEFT BEHIND
LESS WILLING OR LESS ABLE
TO BUY INTO THE DREAM.
BUT RELENTLESSLY
THE DREAM GOES ON,
DRIVEN BY THE COMMUNIST
PARTY'S GUIDING IDEA:
PERSONAL SACRIFICE
FOR THE GREATER GOOD.
IT'S NOT ONLY THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE MADE TO CONFORM TO THIS
VISION OF THE FUTURE;
SO, TOO, IS THE LANDSCAPE.
THE STORY OF THE YANGTZE RIVER
IS THE STORY OF MODERN CHINA.
IT'S THE STARKEST EXAMPLE
OF THE GOVERNMENT'S QUEST
TO CONTROL NATURE IN
ITS PURSUIT OF PROGRESS.
BUT THE YANGTZE IS NOT A
RIVER TO BE TOYED WITH.
IT HAS THE POWER TO MAKE
AND TO BREAK THIS COUNTRY.
IT ALWAYS HAS.
FOR GENERATIONS THE YANGTZE
HAS FERTILIZED THE CROP
WHICH FEEDS THE WORLD'S
LARGEST POPULATION.
CHINA'S RICE FIELDS
FLOURISH ON THE NUTRIENTS
WHICH THE
RIVER PROVIDES.
FOR ON ITS COURSE
FROM MOUNTAIN TO SEA,
THE YANGTZE FEEDS OFF THE
SURROUNDING LANDSCAPE,
COLLECTING VAST AMOUNTS
OF MINERAL-RICH SEDIMENT
IN ITS WATERS.
WHEN IT REACHES THE
FLATLANDS, THE YANGTZE FLOODS,
DISTRIBUTING ITS FERTILE
SILT ACROSS THE LAND.
TODAY THE FLOOD PLAINS OF
THE YANGTZE RIVER BASIN
PRODUCE NEARLY HALF OF ALL
CHINA'S GRAIN AND COTTON.
BUT WHILE THE RIVER
GIVES, IT ALSO TAKES AWAY.
THE ANNUAL FLOODING OF THE
YANGTZE HAS OFTEN POSED
A DEADLY THREAT TO
THOSE WHO LIVE NEAR IT.
MOST RECENTLY, IN 1998, A
FLOOD CREST 53 METERS HIGH
SURGED DOWN RIVER,
SUBMERGING AN AREA
THE SIZE OF NEW ZEALAND AND
DESTROYING FIVE MILLION HOMES.
HU KEN-CHUN IS A FARMER
WHO'S HOUSE LAY DIRECTLY
IN THE PATH OF
THE YANGTZE'S FURY.
TRANSLATOR: IN 1998 OUR VILLAGE
WAS THE FIRST TO BE FLOODED.
FROM THE BEGINNING AT THE
VILLAGE, ALL THE WAY DOWN THERE,
THE WATER FLOWED
THROUGH THE VILLAGE
AND COVERED
ALL THIS LAND.
WE HAD TO TRAVEL BY BOAT AND ALL
THE BUILDINGS WERE SUBMERGED.
>>AS THE WATERS FORCED
14 MILLION PEOPLE TO FLEE
FOR THEIR LIVES, THE GOVERNMENT
DECLARED A STATE OF EMERGENCY.
TRANSLATOR: THE SOLDIERS AND
POLICE CAME TO OUR RESCUE.
THEY RESCUED
OUR FAMILIES.
THEY USED HELICOPTERS,
BOATS AND LIFEBUOYS
TO GET MOST
PEOPLE OUT.
>>THE TOTAL COST OF THE 1998
FLOOD TOPPED 30 BILLION DOLLARS,
BOLSTERING THE BELIEF THAT
SOMETHING DRASTIC HAD TO BE DONE
TO PROTECT THE
PEOPLE FROM FLOODS.
THIS IS HOW THE GOVERNMENT
PROPOSES TO SOLVE
THE PROBLEM OF THE
YANGTZE FLOODING -
WITH THE BARRIER OF
THE THREE GORGES DAM.
STANDING 185 METERS TALL AND
OVER TWO KILOMETERS WIDE,
THIS GARGANTUAN
STRUCTURE IS CHINA'S
LARGEST BUILDING PROJECT
SINCE THE GREAT WALL.
NOW IN ITS FINAL
STAGES OF CONSTRUCTION,
THE DAM WILL CREATE A FIVE
TRILLION GALLON RESERVOIR
HUNDREDS OF METERS DEEP
AND 650 KILOMETERS LONG,
HOLDING BACK
THE WATERS
THAT HAVE CAUSED SUCH
DEVASTATION IN THE PAST.
THE IDEA FOR THE DAM
GOES BACK A LONG WAY.
IN THE 1950'S THE COMMUNIST
LEADER MAO ZEDONG
WAS A WHOLE-HEARTED
SUPPORTER OF BUILDING
THE LARGEST HYDRO-ELECTRIC
DAM IN THE WORLD.
HE TALKED OF SURPRISING
THE GODDESS OF WU GORGE
BY CREATING A HUGE MAN-MADE
LAKE BETWEEN THE DEEP CANYONS.
BUT IT WASN'T UNTIL 1994, AFTER
MAO'S DEATH, THAT THE PROJECT
GOT OFFICIAL APPROVAL AND THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
ORDERED THE DAMMING
OF THE YANGTZE TO BEGIN.
IT WAS TO BE ONE OF THE MOST
AMBITIOUS AND CONTROVERSIAL
ENGINEERING
PROJECTS IN HISTORY.
TWENTY THOUSAND PEOPLE WORKED
TIRELESSLY AROUND THE CLOCK
IN A RACE TO MEET ITS
ENGINEERING DEADLINE.
SO FAR, THE COSTS HAVE
TOPPED 25 BILLION DOLLARS.
BUT MANY WORKERS
PAID THE ULTIMATE PRICE.
OVER A THOUSAND HAVE DIED
IN THE BUILDING OF THE DAM.
ZHANG ZHAO GEN HAS BEEN
INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT SINCE
THE BEGINNING AND IS CHIEF
ENGINEER AT THE SITE TODAY.
GOVERNMENT EXPERTS LIKE
ZHAO GEN CLAIM THAT THE DAM
ALLOWS THEM TO
CONTROL THE RIVER'S FLOW,
REDUCING DOWNSTREAM
FLOODING AND POTENTIALLY
SAVING HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF LIVES.
TRANSLATOR: BY BUILDING THIS DAM
WE HAVE REDUCED THE LIKELIHOOD
OF FLOODING FROM ONCE EVERY TEN
YEARS TO ONCE EVERY 100 YEARS.
IF THE 1998
FLOODING REOCCURS,
THIS DAM WOULD
MAKE A HUGE IMPACT.
THE RESIDENTS BELOW
WILL NOT BE AFFECTED.
>>FEW DISPUTE THAT THE DAM
WILL BE ABLE TO CONTROL
THE FLOW OF THE RIVER, BUT
IT MIGHT AT THE SAME TIME
BE CREATING A
THREAT OF FLOODING
WORSE THAN ANYTHING
THAT'S GONE BEFORE...
BECAUSE THE THREE GORGES
REGION IS AN EARTHQUAKE ZONE
AND THIS CONCRETE
MEGASTRUCTURE
IS BUILT ON A
SEISMIC FAULT LINE.
THE DANGER OF TRAPPING SUCH A
VAST RESERVOIR IN A SEISMICALLY
ACTIVE REGION HAS BEEN A
CAUSE OF MAJOR CONCERN.
AND THOUGH THE GOVERNMENT
CLAIMS THE RISKS ARE SMALL,
THE DAM WAS BUILT WITH
THESE DANGERS IN MIND.
TRANSLATOR: IN THIS AREA
EARTHQUAKES ARE RARE.
AN EARTHQUAKE OF MORE
THAN SIX ON THE RICHTER SCALE
WOULD ONLY HAPPEN ONCE
EVERY TEN THOUSAND YEARS.
BUT THIS DAM IS DESIGNED
TO COPE WITH AN EARTHQUAKE
AS STRONG AS
LEVEL SEVEN.
>>BUT IF THE SCIENCE IS
WRONG AND AN EARTHQUAKE
MAKES THE DAM FAIL, THE
EFFECT ON THE 75 MILLION PEOPLE
LIVING DOWNSTREAM
WOULD BE CATASTROPHIC.
WHAT'S MORE, SOME
EXPERTS CLAIM THAT THE DAM
MIGHT ACTUALLY
CAUSE AN EARTHQUAKE.
THE SHEER WEIGHT OF THE
RESERVOIR COULD STRESS
THE EARTH'S CRUST
TO DANGER LEVELS.
SUCH EVENTS HAVE BEEN
RECORDED EVEN IN AREAS
WITH NO PREVIOUS
HISTORY OF TREMORS.
BUT THE SCIENTISTS ARE
CALCULATING THAT THE RISK OF
EARTHQUAKE IS SMALL COMPARED
TO THE BENEFIT THE DAM OFFERS.
AND SO FAR THE
SCIENTISTS SEEM TO BE RIGHT.
SINCE THE DAM WAS BUILT THE
RAINS HAVE COME AND GONE.
AND THOUGH THERE'S BEEN SOME
LOCALIZED FLOODING DOWNSTREAM,
THE WATERS HAVE
BEEN CONTAINED.
LOSS OF LIFE HAS
BEEN AT A MINIMUM.
BUT SAVING LIVES IS JUST ONE OF
THE REASONS THIS DAM WAS BUILT.
JUST AS IMPORTANT
IS THAT IT'S CRUCIAL
TO CHINA'S
INDUSTRIAL AMBITIONS.
THE THREE GORGES DAM IS
DESIGNED TO TAME THE YANGTZE,
TRANSFORMING IT FROM WILD RIVER
TO ONE OF THE MOST NAVIGABLE
AND PROFITABLE
WATERWAYS IN THE WORLD.
BEFORE THE DAM WAS BUILT, THE
YANGTZE'S CURRENT WAS SO STRONG
THAT LARGE RIVER TRAFFIC HAD
TROUBLE GETTING UPSTREAM.
THE DAM HAS CHANGED THAT,
CONTROLLING AND DILUTING
THE FLOW OF THE CURRENT
IN ITS IMMENSE RESERVOIR
AND ENABLING
HEAVY CARGO SHIPS
TO NAVIGATE DEEP
INTO CHINA'S HEARTLAND.
THE HUGE PHYSICAL BARRIER WHICH
THE DAM POSES TO TRAFFIC IS
COUNTERED BY THE MOST COMPLEX
SYSTEM OF LOCKS EVER BUILT.
FOR SHIPS TRAVELING THROUGH
THESE LOCKS IT'S A FIVE-STAGE
FOUR HOUR RIDE THROUGH
THE CEMENT CORRIDORS
FROM ONE LEVEL OF
THE RIVER TO THE OTHER.
THE SYSTEM ALLOWS 10,000-TON
CARGO SHIPS TO TRAVEL 2,000
KILOMETERS IN BOTH DIRECTIONS
ALONG THE RIVER'S COURSE.
RIVER TRAFFIC ON THE
YANGTZE IS SET TO INCREASE
FROM TEN MILLION TO 50
MILLION TONS PER YEAR.
THIS WATER SUPERHIGHWAY
IS REVITALIZING CHINA'S
INLAND PROVINCES
WHERE GIGANTIC CITIES
WITH POPULATIONS OF TENS
OF MILLIONS ARE TAKING SHAPE.
THE DAM NOT ONLY LINKS THESE
CITIES TO THE OUTSIDE WORLD,
IT QUITE LITERALLY
POWERS THEIR GROWTH.
BY HARNESSING THE RIVER CURRENT,
THE DAM CREATES PRODIGIOUS
AMOUNTS OF ELECTRICITY,
CRUCIAL TO A BOOMING ECONOMY.
THIS IS THE LARGEST
HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER PLANT
EVER BUILT.
WHEN IT'S AT FULL CAPACITY THE
DAM'S TURBINES WILL CREATE
AS MUCH ENERGY AS 18
NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS.
SUPPORTERS OF THE DAM
CLAIM ITS CLEAN ELECTRICITY
IS CRUCIAL IN CUTTING CARBON
POLLUTION AND REDUCING
CHINA'S DEPENDENCY
ON FOSSIL FUELS.
BUT MANY PEOPLE
ARE UNCONVINCED.
FROM THE OUTSET, THE THREE
GORGES PROJECT HAS CAUSED
MASS PROTEST, THE LIKE
OF WHICH HAS NEVER BEEN
WITNESSED IN
COMMUNIST CHINA.
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT LIES AT THE
HEART OF THE PROTESTORS' FEARS
WE MUST TRAVEL UPSTREAM INTO
AN ANCIENT LANDSCAPE THAT
HAS BEEN IRREVOCABLY CHANGED
TO FIND MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
WHO'S HOMES AND HISTORY HAVE
BEEN DESTROYED BY THE DAM.
THE THREE GORGES REGION
HAS LONG BEEN RENOWNED
FOR ITS
SPECTACULAR LANDSCAPE.
BEFORE THE DAM THIS WAS
CHARACTERIZED BY 100-METER
CANYONS THROUGH WHICH THE
YANGTZE RIVER CUT ITS PATH.
TODAY MUCH OF THE MOST DRAMATIC
LANDSCAPE HAS DISAPPEARED
BENEATH THE RISING WATERS OF THE
DAM'S 650 KILOMETER RESERVOIR.
CHANGED, TOO, ARE THE
LIVES OF THE PEOPLE.
120 KILOMETERS
UPSTREAM OF THE DAM,
THE RESIDENTS OF WUSHAN
TOWN HAVE FIRST HAND
EXPERIENCE OF THE HUGE
SOCIAL UPHEAVAL IT HAS CAUSED.
WHEN THE DAM FIRST
BECAME OPERATIONAL IN 2004,
WATER LEVELS IN THIS
REGION ROSE BY 50 METERS,
SUBMERGING PRACTICALLY
ALL OF OLD WUSHAN.
IT'S A DRASTIC CHANGE WHICH
THE CHINESE AUTHORITIES
ARE KEEN TO JUSTIFY.
TRANSLATOR: WUSHAN
IS A NEW MIGRANT CITY.
MOST OF THE OLD CITY
IS NOW UNDER WATER.
IT'S BECOME A
SPECTACULAR VIEW.
>>THOUGH HE LIVED IN THE
OLD CITY, CHEN CHIANG WAS ONE
OF THE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
CHARGED WITH COORDINATING
THE EVACUATION OF ITS RESIDENTS
TO THE NEW CITY FURTHER UPHILL.
TRANSLATOR: THIS MIGRATION
TOOK FOUR STAGES TO COMPLETE.
SO THIS NEW CITY
WAS NOT COMPLETED
IN JUST ONE
OR TWO YEARS.
WE HAD TO FIRSTLY SET A SMALL
AREA TO USE AS A TESTING POINT
AND THEN MOVE
PEOPLE GRADUALLY.
BY NOW WE HAVE ABOUT 30
TO 40 THOUSAND MIGRANTS
LIVING IN
THIS NEW CITY.
>>TODAY THE REINVENTION
OF WUSHAN CONTINUES
AS THE LAST REMNANTS
OF THE OLD TOWN
ARE DESTROYED TO
MAKE WAY FOR THE NEW.
THE GOVERNMENT CLAIMS
THAT THIS CHANGE IS GOOD,
BRINGING WUSHAN
INTO THE 21ST CENTURY.
MANY LOCALS DISAGREE.
SOME STILL CLING TO
THEIR OLD WAY OF LIFE,
TENDING THEIR SHRINKING
FARMLAND AMONG THE
EVER-ENCROACHING
HIGH RISE BLOCKS.
BUT IN A COUNTRY WHERE
PUBLIC PROTEST AGAINST THE DAM
HAS BEEN
FORCIBLY SUPPRESSED,
THESE PEOPLES' VOICES
WILL BE DROWNED OUT TOO.
TRANSLATOR: THIS EMPTY FIELD
BEHIND WILL ALSO BE DEVELOPED
AS PART OF THE NEW CITY.
IT'LL BE USED
UP VERY QUICKLY.
THIS WILL BE A COMMUNITY
PLAZA IN THE FUTURE.
>>THESE FARMERS' HOMES STAND
DIRECTLY IN THE PATH OF PROGRESS
AND IN THE END THEY'LL HAVE
NO CHOICE BUT TO MOVE.
FOR IN CHINA, ALL LAND
IS OWNED BY THE STATE.
CITIZENS LEASE
THEIR PROPERTIES
FROM THE GOVERNMENT ON
A LONG-TERM AGREEMENT.
BUT THE AUTHORITIES CAN
RENEGE ON THE DEAL AT ANY TIME,
AND, IF THEY WISH,
SUBMERGE ENTIRE CITIES
FOR THE SAKE OF
CREATING A NEW CHINA.
SO FAR THE RISING WATERS
HAVE ENGULFED A STAGGERING
13 CITIES, 140 TOWNS,
AND OVER 1,300 VILLAGES.
UP TO TWO MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
HAD THEIR HOMES REPOSSESSED
IN THE NAME OF PROGRESS.
ONE IN FIVE HAVE BEEN MOVED
TO DIFFERENT PROVINCES
WHERE DIALECT, CLIMATE,
EVEN DIET ARE DIFFERENT.
MANY MORE HAVE WATCHED
THEIR LIVELIHOODS DISAPPEAR
ALONG WITH
THEIR HOMES.
SUNG TSE-ILAM OWNS A
CHARTER BOAT SERVICE
OPERATING FROM
WUSHAN DOCKS.
TODAY SHE FERRIES THE TOURISTS
WHO FLOCK TO SEE WHAT'S LEFT OF
THE BEAUTIFUL GORGES ALONG THE
YANGTZE AND ITS TRIBUTARIES.
A FEW YEARS AGO, HOWEVER,
TSE-ILAM WOULD HAVE BEEN A
LIVING PART OF THE LANDSCAPE
WHICH IS NOW UNDER WATER.
TRANSLATOR: BEFORE WE OWNED
THIS TOURIST BOAT COMPANY
WE OWNED A FAMILY INN IN JIN
DE ZHENG AND WE WERE FARMING.
>>WHEN THE THREE GORGES
RESERVOIR BEGAN TO FILL,
TSE-ILAM'S FARMHOUSE WAS
AMONG THE FIRST BUILDINGS
TO BE SUBMERGED.
AS THE WATERS ROSE AROUND
HER, SHE WAS RELOCATED
TO A NEW HOME
UPON THE HILL.
IT WAS TO BE THE FIRST OF MANY
MOVES TO AVOID THE RISING TIDES.
TRANSLATOR: WE'VE MOVED
THREE TIMES, HAVEN'T WE?
ONCE IN 1997 WHEN THE RIVER
WAS CUT OFF, AND ONCE IN 2003,
AND THEN ONCE
MORE IN 2005.
WE HAD TO MOVE
EVERYONE AND EVERYTHING.
IT INVOLVED A LOT OF
COST AND EFFORT.
>>DESPITE HER PERSONAL
TRIALS, THE GOVERNMENT
SEES TSE-ILAM AS
A SUCCESS STORY.
SHE'S MADE THE MOST OF
THE OPPORTUNITIES AND
FINANCIAL COMPENSATION
OFFERED BY THE AUTHORITIES
TO CREATE A NEW
LIFE FOR HERSELF.
NOT EVERYONE HAS
ADAPTED SO WELL.
MANY OLDER PEOPLE ARE
UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
RETRAINING WHICH IS AVAILABLE.
AND A LIFETIME WORKING THE
LAND LEAVES THEM ILL EQUIPPED
TO DEAL WITH THE
CONFINES OF URBAN LIVING.
EVEN THOSE WHO HAVE BOUGHT IN
TO CHINA'S VISION OF THE FUTURE
FIND IT DIFFICULT TO
FORGET THE PAST.
TRANSLATOR: I DO MISS
MY OLD HOME A LITTLE.
I CAN'T FORGET THE TIME
WHEN I USED TO FARM
AND RUN THE
FAMILY INN.
THE MEMORIES OF SERVING GUESTS -
THOSE DAYS WERE REALLY RELAXING.
>>IT'S NOT ONLY RECENT HISTORY
WHICH HAS BEEN WIPED AWAY
BY THE RISING WATERS, SO
TOO HAS THE ANCIENT PAST.
THE YANGTZE RIVER BASIN
IS THE TRADITIONAL HOME
OF THE GREAT DYNASTIES
AND KINGDOMS OF OLD ASIA.
THE NATURAL BARRIER CREATED BY
THE RIVER MADE IT AN IMPORTANT
POLITICAL BOUNDARY AND THE
SCENE OF MANY HISTORIC BATTLES.
THE THREE GORGES REGION
IS PARTICULARLY RICH
IN DYNASTIC
ARCHITECTURE.
MANY EMPERORS BUILT GREAT
TEMPLES ON THE STEEP RIVERBANKS.
WHEN THE WATER LEVELS BEGAN TO
RISE THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
FUNDED A $125 MILLION PROJECT TO
SAVE THE MOST IMPORTANT SITES
FROM BEING SUBMERGED.
IN WHAT'S BEEN DESCRIBED AS THE
BIGGEST HISTORICAL SALVAGE
OPERATION EVER, ENTIRE BUILDINGS
WERE METICULOUSLY CATALOGUED
AND MOVED PIECE BY
PIECE TO HIGHER GROUND.
BUT MANY OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
RELICS COULD NOT BE SAVED
BECAUSE THEY LAY EMBEDDED
IN THE VERY LANDSCAPE
WHICH WAS TO
BE SUBMERGED.
BEFORE THE BUILDING OF THE DAM,
THE GOVERNMENT COMMISSIONED
A MAJOR ARCHEOLOGICAL
SURVEY OF THIS AREA.
PEI XIANG WAS CHIEF
COORDINATOR OF THE PROJECT
IN THE WUSHAN REGION.
MUCH OF HIS RESEARCH
FOCUSED ON THE BO PEOPLE,
AN ANCIENT CIVILIZATION THAT
LIVED ON THE STEEP SLOPES OF
THE YANGTZE AND ITS TRIBUTARIES
SOME 2,000 YEARS AGO.
THE MOST IMPRESSIVE EVIDENCE
OF ANCIENT BO CULTURE
IS TO BE SEEN IN THE CLIFFS
HIGH ABOVE THE RIVER.
TRANSLATOR: WE ARE
NOW ON THE RIVER.
WE CAN SEE A COFFIN SET
HIGH IN THE CLIFF UP THERE.
>>HOW THE BO PEOPLE
MANAGED TO LAY THEIR DEAD
IN THEIR FINAL RESTING
PLACE IS A MYSTERY.
EXACTLY WHY THEY DID
SO IS ALSO UNKNOWN.
TRANSLATOR: THERE ARE
TWO EXPLANATIONS.
THE FIRST IS THAT THE BO'S
DESCENDANTS WANTED TO HONOR
THEIR ANCESTORS AND SO BURIED
THEIR BODIES IN A HIGH PLACE.
THE SECOND EXPLANATION IS THAT
THEY DID IT TO AVOID VANDALISM.
>>THE BO PEOPLE COULDN'T
POSSIBLY HAVE IMAGINED
THAT ULTIMATELY IT WOULDN'T
BE THIEVES WHO WOULD STEAL
THEIR ANCESTORS' REMAINS,
BUT THE RIVER ITSELF.
WHEN THE WATERS BEGAN TO
RISE IN 1998, ARCHAEOLOGISTS
WERE JUST BEGINNING TO DEVELOP
A BETTER UNDERSTANDING
OF THE CULTURAL WEALTH
OF BO CIVILIZATION.
BUT THEIR DISCOVERIES CAME
TOO LATE TO STOP THE FLOODING.
WHILE SOME COFFINS HAVE BEEN
RESCUED AND REMOVED TO MUSEUMS,
MANY MORE HAVE SIMPLY
BEEN SUBMERGED.
IN TOTAL, OVER A THOUSAND
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES
HAVE BEEN LOST AS
THE WATERS HAVE RISEN.
BUT THE UNIQUE HERITAGE OF
THIS REGION HAS NEVER BEEN
MORE CRUCIAL TO ITS SURVIVAL.
AS THE RICH FARMLANDS
ON THE LOWER RIVERBANKS
HAVE DISAPPEARED UNDERWATER,
SO TOO HAVE
PEOPLES' LIVELIHOODS.
THE GOVERNMENT SEES TOURISM AS
PROVIDING A REPLACEMENT INCOME
AND HAS POURED MONEY
INTO ENTICING VISITORS
TO THE THREE
GORGES REGION
USING ITS HISTORY AS A
UNIQUE SELLING POINT.
ONE OF THE MOST POPULAR
TOURS IS A TRIP UPRIVER,
TRADITIONAL STYLE.
BEFORE THE THREE GORGES
RESERVOIR WAS CREATED,
PARTS OF THE YANGTZE AND ITS
TRIBUTARIES RAN TOO SHALLOW
FOR HEAVY CARGO TO
SAIL THE RIVER'S LENGTH.
BIG SHIPS HAD TO BE
DRAGGED UPSTREAM BY HAND.
MEN KNOWN AS TRACKERS WERE
EMPLOYED TO PULL BARGES ALONG
USING NOTHING BUT HUMAN
EFFORT AND HEAVY ROPE.
TODAY TOURISTS PAY FOR THIS
PICTURE POSTCARD EXPERIENCE
OF LIFE ON THE
OLD YANGTZE.
UPSTREAM, HOWEVER, A NEW CHINA
IS EMERGING TO REPLACE THE OLD -
A CHINA CHARACTERIZED BY MEGA
CITIES AND MEGA PROGRESS.
THIS COUNTRY IS URBANIZING
FASTER THAN ANYWHERE IN HISTORY
AND THE YANGTZE IS AT THE HEART
OF THIS MASSIVE SOCIAL CHANGE.
SOME PEOPLE ARE
EMBRACING THE CHANGES.
OTHERS ARE
STRUGGLING TO KEEP PACE.
AS IS THE RIVER ITSELF.
650 KILOMETERS UPSTREAM
OF THE DAM AT THE TIP OF THE
THREE GORGES RESERVOIR IS THE
MOUNTAIN CITY OF CHONGQING,
SYMBOL OF CHINA'S
BRAVE NEW WORLD.
IN THE LAST TEN YEARS THE
AREA COVERED BY THE CITY
HAS MORE
THAN DOUBLED.
SO, TOO, HAS
THE POPULATION.
NOW THE MUNICIPALITY OF
CHONGQING IS HOME TO A
STAGGERING 30 MILLION
PEOPLE, AND RISING.
THIS IS THE FASTEST GROWING
URBAN CENTER ON THE PLANET.
TO KEEP PACE, THE CITY
MAP NEEDS TO BE REDRAWN
EVERY THREE MONTHS.
CHONGQING IS AT THE FOREFRONT
OF WHAT THE GOVERNMENT CALLS
"THE GREAT WESTERN
DEVELOPMENT".
THE THREE GORGES PROJECT IS JUST
ONE PART OF THIS MULTIBILLION
DOLLAR STRATEGY TO REVITALIZE
CHINA'S HEARTLAND.
AS WELL AS INVESTING IN
ROADS, BRIDGES, AND DAMS,
THE GOVERNMENT MUST
CREATE SOME 24 MILLION
NEW JOBS EVERY YEAR JUST
TO KEEP THE COUNTRY'S
EVER-INCREASING
POPULATION IN WORK.
IN A REGION WHERE SO
MUCH HAS BEEN SACRIFICED
TO MAKE WAY FOR PROGRESS,
A BOOMING ECONOMY
MAKES UP FOR
DISTRESS AND UPHEAVAL.
ONE OF THOSE AT THE CUTTING
EDGE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
IS YIN MINGSHAN.
HE'S THE FOUNDER OF THE LIFAN
SEDAN FACTORY, EMPLOYING 9,000
WORKERS WITH AN ANNUAL TURNOVER
OF MORE THAN A BILLION DOLLARS.
IMPRISONED IN THE 1970'S FOR
BEING AN ADVOCATE OF CAPITALISM,
TODAY MINGSHAN IS 24TH
ON CHINA'S RICH LIST.
HE'S HELD UP AS A SHINING
EXAMPLE OF THE NEW
ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT
WHICH THE GOVERNMENT
NOW WANTS TO
ENCOURAGE.
TRANSLATOR: WE ARE
ABLE TO PRODUCE
MOTORBIKES
AND CARS HERE.
THESE LIFAN PRODUCTS ARE SOLD TO
AROUND 128 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE.
YOU CAN BUY LIFAN
MOTORBIKES EVEN IN THE UK.
>>THE THREE GORGES DAM
HAS BEEN THE CORNERSTONE
OF YIN MINGSHAN'S
SUCCESS.
IT PROVIDES THE ROUTE BY
WHICH HIS FACTORY'S PRODUCTS
CAN REACH THE
INTERNATIONAL MARKET.
BEFORE THE DAM WAS BUILT, LARGE
RIVER TRAFFIC COULD ONLY REACH
CHONGQING DURING THE RAINY
SEASON WHEN MELTING ICE AND
MONSOONS MEANT THE YANGTZE RAN
DEEP AND FAST THROUGH THE CITY.
BUT THE BUILDING OF THE DAM AND
ITS HUGE SYSTEM OF LOCKS ALLOWS
SHIPS TO TRAVEL TO AND FROM
CHONGQING ALL YEAR ROUND.
TRANSLATOR: OF
COURSE THE MAIN BENEFIT
WHICH THE YANGTZE
RIVER PROVIDES IS SHIPPING.
THE COST OF SHIPPING
IS VERY, VERY CHEAP.
>>WHAT'S MORE, BEFORE
THE BUILDING OF THE DAM,
THE ELECTRICITY
SUPPLIED TO CHONGQING
WAS EXTREMELY
UNRELIABLE.
>>YIN MINGSHAN HAD TO
FACTOR POWER RATIONING
INTO HIS
BUSINESS PLAN.
TRANSLATOR: THE "STOP THREE,
ENSURE FOUR" CAMPAIGN
MEANT THAT EVERY WEEK
THERE WOULD BE THREE DAYS
WITHOUT ELECTRICITY TO
ENSURE FOUR DAYS WITH IT.
BUT THERE ARE NO POWER
CUTS NOW BECAUSE OF THE
THREE GORGES
POWER STATION.
>>TODAY THE HYDRO POWER
PRODUCED BY THE DAM
PROVIDES THE WHOLE
CITY WITH CHEAP,
RELIABLE ELECTRICITY
TO FEED ITS GROWTH.
THIS COMMERCIAL WEALTH ATTRACTS
NO FEWER THAN HALF A MILLION
NEW CITIZENS TO
CHONGQING EVERY YEAR.
THEY COME IN SEARCH
OF A BETTER LIFE...
THOUGH IT'S NOT
ALWAYS EASY TO FIND.
WEDGED BETWEEN THE
CITY'S BUSTLING PORT
AND COMMERCIAL CENTER IS
THE SHEN XIAMEN DISTRICT
WHERE THE BANG BANG
MEN LIVE AND WORK.
THIS 100,000 STRONG
CREW OF PORTERS LITERALLY
BEAR THE CITY'S WEIGHT
ON THEIR SHOULDERS.
ARRIVING IN DROVES FROM
RURAL AREAS WITH NO SKILLS
AND LITTLE EDUCATION,
THEY ACQUIRE THE CHEAPEST
OF TOOLS - A BAMBOO
POLE AND SOME ROPE -
WHICH THEY USE TO EARN A
LIVING AROUND THE CITY PORT.
IT'S THIS BAMBOO POLE, CALLED
"BANG BANG" IN CHINESE,
WHICH EARNS THE
PORTERS THEIR NAME.
THEIR SERVICES ARE
HIRED BY EVERYONE
FROM BUSINESSMEN TO TOURISTS
TO MOVE ALL KINDS OF GOODS
BETWEEN SHIPS
AND DRY LAND.
ORIGINALLY FROM A
COUNTRYSIDE VILLAGE,
HU SHEN MOVED TO
CHONGQING TWO YEARS AGO
AND HAS BEEN WORKING AS A
BANG BANG MAN EVER SINCE.
BECAUSE CHONGQING IS LOCATED
HIGH ON A MOUNTAINSIDE WITH
BUMPY ROADS, BANG BANG IS USED
TO HELP PEOPLE CARRY THINGS.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE A LOT
OF LUGGAGE WHICH THEY
CANNOT MANAGE TO
CARRY THEMSELVES.
THIS IS WHY
BANG BANG EXISTS.
>>THOUGH HE CARRIES MORE
THAN HIS OWN WEIGHT IN GOODS,
SHEN EARNS LITTLE MORE
THAN SEVEN DOLLARS A DAY.
AFTER SENDING A FEW
DOLLARS HOME TO HIS PARENTS,
HE SUPPORTS HIS WIFE AND
TWO CHILDREN ON WHAT'S LEFT.
LIVING IN ONE OF THE
POOREST AREAS OF THE CITY,
SHEN SHARES HIS RENTED FLAT
WITH HIS SISTER AND HER FAMILY
TO KEEP LIVING
COSTS LOW.
TRANSLATOR:
THIS IS MY HOME.
THIS IS THE BATHROOM
AND THIS IS THE KITCHEN.
>>FOUR ADULTS AND FOUR
CHILDREN ARE CRAMMED
INTO THIS TINY
LIVING SPACE.
YET EVEN THIS IS AN
IMPROVEMENT ON SHEN'S
PREVIOUS STANDARD OF
LIVING IN THE COUNTRYSIDE.
HE SEES IT AS THE
FIRST STEP ON THE ROAD
TO A NEW FUTURE
FOR HIS FAMILY.
TRANSLATOR: I TRAVELED OVER 200
KILOMETERS TO CHONGQING.
IN THE BEGINNING I
DID IT TO SURVIVE.
MY PREVIOUS LIVING
CONDITIONS WERE VERY HARSH.
NOW WE ARE HERE FOR OUR
CHILDREN, TO PROVIDE THEM
WITH BETTER LIVING
CONDITIONS AND EDUCATION.
>>THE BANG BANG MEN ARE LIVING
TESTAMENT TO A COMMON BELIEF
THAT THE FUTURE OF CHINA BELONGS
TO THOSE WHO SEIZE OPPORTUNITY.
BUT AS THEY STRIVE WITH EVERY
STEP TO IMPROVE THEIR LIVES,
FEW REALIZE THAT
THE ECONOMIC BOOM
WHICH PROVIDES
THEIR OPPORTUNITY
IS POISONING THE RIVER
UPON WHICH THEY DEPEND.
CHONGQING IS JUST ONE OF
200 CITIES THAT GET THEIR
WATER SUPPLY
FROM THE YANGTZE.
THESE MASSIVE URBAN AREAS
PRODUCE VAST AMOUNTS OF
DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE
- 25 BILLION TONS OF WHICH
IS DUMPED STRAIGHT INTO
THE RIVER EVERY YEAR.
POLLUTION LEVELS ON THE YANGTZE
HAVE REACHED AN ALL TIME HIGH.
THE SITUATION HAS BEEN MADE
WORSE BY THE THREE GORGES DAM.
THE ECONOMIC GROWTH
HELPED BY THE DAM
HAS DRAMATICALLY INCREASED
THE AMOUNT OF POLLUTION
CREATED BY CITIES
LIKE CHONGQING.
NOW THE AUTHORITIES STRUGGLE TO
KEEP PACE WITH THE DEVELOPMENT
THAT THREATENS TO CHOKE
THIS RIVER AND ITS PEOPLE.
HU DONG MING IS AN
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTIST WHO
CAMPAIGNS TO PROTECT THE YANGTZE
FROM THE EFFECTS OF POLLUTION.
TRANSLATOR: THE YANGTZE
RIVER AREA IS AN INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
THE MOST COMMON SOURCES OF
WATER POLLUTION ARE FIRSTLY
EFFLUENT FROM FACTORIES;
SECOND IS DOMESTIC SEWAGE;
THIRD IS AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION;
FOURTH IS SHIPPING WASTE;
FIFTH IS JUST
ORDINARY RUBBISH.
>>FEW PEOPLE ARE BRAVE
ENOUGH TO REPORT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL CRISES
FACED BY THE RIVER.
IN THE PAST, DONG MING HAS
RECEIVED DEATH THREATS
FOR SPEAKING OUT.
BUT ON THE YANGTZE THE
EVIDENCE SPEAKS FOR ITSELF
AS THIS RIVER ABSORBS MORE
THAN 40% OF ALL CHINA'S WASTE.
AND IT'S NOT JUST THE MAIN
WATERWAY THAT'S SUFFERING.
OVER A THIRD OF THE
YANGTZE'S MAJOR TRIBUTARIES
ARE ALSO
SERIOUSLY POLLUTED.
THE PROBLEM IS CLEARLY EVIDENT
IN THE SUBURBS OF CHONGQING.
TRANSLATOR: THIS STREAM IS
CALLED "CLEARWATER" STREAM,
BUT NOW YOU CAN
SEE IT'S POLLUTED.
APPROXIMATELY 60,000
TO 80,000 TONS OF SEWAGE
ENTERS THIS
STREAM EVERY DAY.
THIS STREAM FLOWS INTO THE
JIALING RIVER WHICH THEN FLOWS
INTO THE YANGTZE, FIFTEEN
KILOMETERS DOWNSTREAM.
>>IN THE PAST, PEOPLE ASSUMED
THE YANGTZE WAS TOO BIG
TO POISON AS ANY TOXINS WERE
FLUSHED AWAY BY THE 900 BILLION
TONS OF WATER THAT FLOWED
THROUGH THE RIVER EVERY YEAR.
BUT THE RESERVOIR CREATED
BY THE THREE GORGES DAM
HAS ALTERED
THAT CURRENT.
WHILE THE SPEED OF THE
WATER ON THE RIVER'S SURFACE
HAS INCREASED, THE
VELOCITY OF THE FLOW BENEATH
HAS FALLEN TO
PRACTICALLY ZERO.
THE RIVER CAN NO LONGER
CARRY WASTE AWAY FROM THE CITY
AND IT NOW ACCUMULATES
IN A STAGNANT RESERVOIR.
A POLLUTED YANGTZE
SPELLS DISASTER
FOR THE LOCAL
POPULATION.
THIS RIVER PROVIDES DRINKING
WATER TO 400 MILLION PEOPLE -
THAT'S ONE IN EVERY
15 ON THE PLANET.
THE POLLUTED WATER HAS
BEEN BLAMED FOR UNUSUALLY
HIGH RATES OF CANCER
AND BIRTH DEFECTS
AMONG PEOPLE WHO
LIVE NEAR THE YANGTZE.
THOUGH THE GOVERNMENT INSISTS
YANGTZE WATER IS SAFE TO DRINK,
XUE DONG MING STILL CHOOSES
TO HIKE FOUR HOURS EVERY WEEK
TO DRAW HIS OWN SUPPLY
FROM A MOUNTAIN SPRING.
TRANSLATOR: THIS
WATER IS VERY NATURAL.
IT COMES FROM THE RAIN AND IS
FILTERED THROUGH THE FOREST.
IT'S SPRING WATER;
IT'S VERY GOOD.
>>BUT SPRING WATER IS A
LUXURY THE POOREST URBAN
MASSES OF CHINA
SIMPLY CANNOT AFFORD.
LONG HOURS OF HARD LABOR LEAVE
NO TIME FOR WATER GATHERING.
NEITHER DO THE PEOPLE
KNOW HOW MUCH THE WATERWAY
THEY LIVE ALONG
HAS BEEN DAMAGED.
THIS IS TRUE FOR EVERY KILOMETER
OF THE RIVER'S COURSE.
AS IT LEAVES CHONGQING, FORGING
ITS WAY DOWNSTREAM TOWARDS
THE EAST CHINA SEA, IT
BECOMES EVER MORE APPARENT
THAT THE YANGTZE IS OVER
USED AND UNDER THREAT.
THE THREAT IS SO SEVERE THAT
IT'S CAUSING THE RIVER TO FAIL
IN ITS AGE-OLD FUNCTION
OF FEEDING THE PEOPLE.
IT'S EVEN CAUSING THE RIVER
TO EAT AWAY AT THE SHORELINE,
POTENTIALLY DESTROYING THE VERY
CITIES IT HAS HELPED CREATE.
ONE-THIRD OF THE WAY ALONG ITS
SEAWARD JOURNEY FROM CHONGQING
THE YANGTZE COMES UP AGAINST
THE GIGANTIC PHYSICAL BARRIER
OF THE THREE
GORGES DAM.
THE EFFECT OF THE WATER
FLOW MEETING THIS STRUCTURE
IS LIKE A SPEEDING CAR
HITTING A CONCRETE WALL.
THE RIVER AND ALL THAT'S
CARRIED ALONG IN ITS WATERS
ARE STOPPED DEAD
IN THEIR TRACKS.
THE DAM IS A FEAT
OF ENGINEERING
OF WHICH THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT IS VERY PROUD.
TOURISTS ARE WELCOME
TO THE SITE TO MARVEL AT
WHAT'S NICKNAMED
CHINA'S "NEW GREAT WALL".
DURING THE OFFICIAL
TOUR, VISITORS ARE TOLD
THE SUCCESS STORY OF
THE BUILDING OF THE DAM.
BUT DEEP INSIDE THIS STRUCTURE
A DIFFERENT STORY IS EMERGING,
REVEALING A MASSIVE FLAW
IN THE THREE GORGES PLAN.
FOR WHILE THE WATER CAN
STILL CONTINUE DOWNSTREAM
THROUGH THE DAM, THE
SAME CANNOT BE SAID ABOUT
THE LIFE-GIVING SILT
CARRIED IN THE RIVER'S FLOW.
THE YANGTZE IS ONE OF THE
MOST SEDIMENT-RICH RIVERS
IN THE WORLD.
IT IS SILT WHICH GIVES THE RIVER
ITS MURKY BROWN COLOR AND,
DEPOSITED BY THE CURRENT, IT
HAS SHAPED THIS LANDSCAPE
FOR THOUSANDS
OF YEARS.
SPECIAL SILT VALVES ARE
BUILT INTO THE DAM WALL
TO ALLOW THE SEDIMENT
TO FLUSH THROUGH.
BUT THE SHEER AMOUNT
OF SILT PRESENTS A HUGE
TECHNICAL CHALLENGE.
THE SYSTEM STRUGGLES TO COPE
AS AN AVERAGE OF 140 MILLION
TONS OF SILT ARE TRAPPED
BEHIND THE DAM EVERY YEAR.
AT THIS RATE, SEDIMENT BUILD-UP
IN THE BOTTOM OF THE RESERVOIR
WILL RAISE THE WATER
LEVELS UPSTREAM, SEVERELY
INCREASING THE THREAT OF
FLOODING IN CHONGQING.
THERE IS EVEN TALK OF, YET
AGAIN, FORCIBLY RESETTLING
A MILLION PEOPLE FROM THIS
AREA TO HIGHER GROUND,
OUT OF HARM'S WAY.
BUT IT'S AT THE END OF THE
RIVER'S COURSE THAT THE MOST
DRAMATIC ILL-EFFECTS OF THE
TRAPPED SILT BECOME APPARENT.
A THOUSAND KILOMETERS
DOWNSTREAM OF THE DAM,
THE CITY OF SHANGHAI SITS AT
THE MOUTH OF THE YANGTZE DELTA.
A GLITTERING TESTAMENT TO
CHINA'S ECONOMIC GROWTH,
THIS BUSTLING PORT IS
BUILT QUITE LITERALLY
ON THE WEALTH
OF THE RIVER.
OVER TWO-THIRDS OF THE CITY'S
FOUNDATIONS ARE BUILT ON SILT
DEPOSITED HERE BY THE YANGTZE
OVER THOUSANDS OF YEARS.
YANG XIALING IS A GEOLOGIST
WHO LEADS A RESEARCH PROJECT
ON SILT LEVELS IN
THE YANGTZE RIVER.
MUCH OF HIS RESEARCH IS FOCUSED
ON THE ISLAND OF CHONGMING.
LYING NORTH OF SHANGHAI'S CITY
CENTER, RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE YANGTZE RIVER
CHANNEL, THIS ENTIRE ISLAND
OWES ITS EXISTENCE
TO RIVER SILT.
TRANSLATOR: FIFTY YEARS AGO THIS
PLACE WAS COVERED BY WATER.
THERE WERE NO PLANTS
GROWING HERE.
THE REASON IT EXISTS
NOW IS BECAUSE OF SILT
FROM THE YANGTZE RIVER.
ONCE THE SILT PILED UP
TO A CERTAIN HEIGHT,
PLANTS BEGAN TO GROW.
>>TODAY THE WETLANDS OF
CHONGMING ARE A PROTECTED
CONSERVATION AREA.
INCREDIBLY RICH IN WILDLIFE,
THEY PROVIDE A CRUCIAL
STOP-OFF POINT FOR
MIGRATORY BIRDS TRAVELING
FROM THE SOUTHERN TO
THE NORTHERN HEMISPHERE.
THEY'RE ALSO A VITAL BREEDING
GROUND FOR MANY AQUATIC ANIMALS.
BUT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE
YANGTZE'S SILT WETLANDS
ARE GIVEN
OVER TO NATURE.
ON SHANGHAI'S MAINLAND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT HAS TAKEN OVER.
AS CHINA'S ECONOMIC CAPITAL,
SHANGHAI IS GROWING FAST.
ITS DELTA IS ONE OF THE MOST
DENSELY POPULATED REGIONS
ON EARTH.
BOASTING SOME OF THE
MOST EXPENSIVE REAL ESTATE
IN THE WORLD, THIS
CITY ALREADY HAS
NEARLY TWICE AS MANY
HIGH RISES AS NEW YORK
AND CONTINUES TO BUILD THEM
AT AN EXTRAORDINARY RATE.
THE GOVERNMENT HOPES THAT THE
RIVER WILL CONTINUE TO REPLENISH
THE COASTLINE, PROVIDING THE
NEW LAND NEEDED FOR EXPANSION.
BUT THERE'S A
FLAW IN THE PLAN.
THERE ISN'T ENOUGH
SILT FOR THE JOB.
TRANSLATOR: SINCE THE
THREE GORGES DAM WAS BUILT
OUR RESEARCH SHOWS
THAT BETWEEN 2003 AND 2006
SOME 140 MILLION TONS
OF SILT WAS TRAPPED
IN THE RESERVOIR
EVERY YEAR.
THAT'S ABOUT 60% OF ALL
THE SILT IN THE WATER.
>>SATELLITE READINGS
SHOW THE TIDAL WETLANDS
ARE IN DANGER OF
DISAPPEARING BECAUSE OF
SEDIMENT TRAPPED IN
THE THREE GORGES DAM.
RATHER THAN BULKING UP
THE VALUABLE SHORELINE,
THE YANGTZE IS NOW EATING
AWAY AT WHAT'S ALREADY THERE.
UP TO FOUR SQUARE
KILOMETERS OF COASTLINE
HAS ALREADY DISAPPEARED
DUE TO COASTAL EROSION.
PROTECTING WHAT'S LEFT AND
PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE
WILL BE A
COSTLY BUSINESS.
TRANSLATOR: SHANGHAI'S PLANS
OF RECLAIMING MORE LAND
WILL BE VERY
DIFFICULT TO ACHIEVE.
WE PROBABLY NEED
TO REVISE THIS PLAN
AND INTRODUCE NEW
METHODS TO PROTECT THE SILT.
FOR EXAMPLE, BUILDING A
BREAKWATER EMBANKMENT.
IT WILL BE MORE EXPENSIVE
BECAUSE WE MUST BUILD IT
STRONGER AND
HIGHER THAN BEFORE.
>>IT'S NOT ONLY SHANGHAI'S
LANDMASS WHICH IS DISAPPEARING,
SO, TOO, IS ITS
RIVER WILDLIFE.
SHANGHAI FISH MARKET
IS A CHAOTIC TESTAMENT
TO THE QUANTITY AND
VARIETY OF FISH LIFE
THAT THE YANGTZE
RIVER SUPPORTS.
80% OF ALL CHINA'S
FRESHWATER FISH
ARE CAUGHT AT THE RIVER
DELTA HERE IN SHANGHAI.
THE INDUSTRY IS WORTH
$700 MILLION A YEAR.
BUT IN RECENT YEARS THERE'S BEEN
A DRAMATIC DOWNTURN IN PROFITS.
BETWEEN 2005 AND 2006
FISHING YIELDS AT THE
MOUTH OF THE YANGTZE
FELL BY NEARLY A HALF.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
FISH THAT ARE CAUGHT TODAY
ARE LESS THAN ONE
KILOGRAM IN WEIGHT.
WHILE OVER FISHING HAS
UNDOUBTEDLY CONTRIBUTED
TO THE DECLINE OF
FISH STOCKS, SO TOO
HAS THE BUILDING OF
THE THREE GORGES DAM.
XUE YONG-PING IS A
SCIENTIST AT SHANGHAI'S
WATER
RESEARCH CENTER.
HE BELIEVES THAT THE LOSS
OF SILT PLAYS A HUGE ROLE
IN THE DECLINE
OF FISH.
TRANSLATOR: THE SPEED AT WHICH
THE WETLANDS ARE BEING FORMED
HAS SLOWED AND THIS HAS
CAUSED THE WETLANDS
AT THE YANGTZE
DELTA TO SHRINK.
THE LOSS OF THESE WETLANDS
HAS A DIRECT INFLUENCE ON FISH
BECAUSE THE WETLANDS ARE AN
IMPORTANT BREEDING GROUND
AND PROVIDE A HABITAT
FOR YOUNG FISH TO GROW.
>>THE REDUCTION IN
SEDIMENT IS ALSO AFFECTING
THE RIVER'S
DELICATE ECO-SYSTEM.
IT IS THE SILT WHICH FEEDS
THE MICROSCOPIC PLANKTON
THAT FORMS A VITAL
PART OF THE FOOD CHAIN
AT THE
YANGTZE DELTA.
EXPERIMENTS CONDUCTED AT
THE WATER RESEARCH CENTER
SHOW THE DECREASE OF SILT
IS AFFECTING THE AMOUNT
AND VARIETY OF PLANKTON
GROWING IN THE WATERS.
AS CERTAIN TYPES OF
FISH-FRIENDLY PLANKTON
STRUGGLE TO SURVIVE,
DAMAGING SPECIES TAKE OVER
CAUSING BLOOMS OF ALGAE
WHICH ARE TOXIC TO FISH.
BUT PERHAPS THE GREATEST THREAT
OF ALL TO THE RIVER'S HEALTH
IS THE AGGRESSIVE
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
WHICH IS SWAMPING
ITS WATERS.
THE NEW LOCK SYSTEM AT
THE THREE GORGES DAM
HAS IMPROVED THE
NAVIGABILITY OF THE YANGTZE.
AS A RESULT, THE
AMOUNT OF RIVER TRAFFIC
HAS DRAMATICALLY
INCREASED.
SHANGHAI IS NOW THE
WORLD'S BUSIEST PORT,
TRANSPORTING OVER 443 MILLION
TONS OF CARGO ANNUALLY.
BUT THE INCREDIBLE
INCREASE IN VOLUME OF SHIPS
SPELLS DISASTER
FOR WILDLIFE.
ANY CREATURE TRYING TO
CROSS THESE CROWDED WATERS
WOULD BE LIKE A RABBIT
CROSSING A 12-LANE HIGHWAY.
THE POLLUTION WHICH IS A
BYPRODUCT OF THE SHIPPING
INDUSTRY ALSO POSES
A DEADLY THREAT.
TRANSLATOR: THE
DIRECT EFFECTS ARE NOISE,
WASTE POLLUTION,
AND TRAFFIC COLLISIONS
WHICH CAUSE TOXIC
WASTE TO BE DISCHARGED.
THOSE ARE THE
DIRECT EFFECTS.
THE INDIRECT EFFECTS ARISE
FROM MAINTAINING THE RIVER'S
SHIPPING ROUTE, WHICH
HAS TO BE DREDGED.
TO MAINTAIN THE YANGTZE'S
DEEP RIVER PATHWAY,
A CHANNEL 80 TO 90
KILOMETERS LONG,
300 METERS WIDE AND TEN
METERS DEEP HAS TO BE DUG.
THIS IS DETRIMENTAL
TO THE FISH'S HABITAT.
>>THE COMBINED EFFECTS OF SILT
LOSS AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
HAVE HAD SUCH A DRAMATIC
IMPACT THAT THE GOVERNMENT
HAS BEEN FORCED TO IMPOSE
A SEASONAL FISHING BAN
ON PARTS OF
THE RIVER.
EVEN WHEN THEY ARE
ALLOWED TO CAST THEIR NETS,
FISHERMEN WHO USED TO
MAKE A HANDSOME LIVING
OFTEN RETURN TO SHORE
WITH A MEAGER HARVEST.
MANY NATIVE SPECIES WHICH
WERE ONCE A COMMON CATCH
ARE IN DANGER OF BECOMING
MUSEUM SPECIMENS.
ONE FISH ON THE
BRINK OF DISAPPEARING
IS CHINA'S ICONIC
RIVER STURGEON.
ONCE THE STAPLE DIET OF LOCALS,
THESE MASSIVE FISH CAN GROW
UP TO FOUR METERS IN LENGTH
AND WEIGH OVER 450 KILOS.
TRANSLATOR: RECENT HUMAN
DEVELOPMENT AND CHANGES IN THE
ENVIRONMENT HAVE SERIOUSLY
AFFECTED THESE FISH.
THEIR NUMBERS HAVE
DECLINED RAPIDLY
AND THEY ARE
CLOSE TO DYING OUT.
>>TO PREVENT THE RIVER STURGEON
FROM DISAPPEARING COMPLETELY,
THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HAS FUNDED
A MAJOR
CONSERVATION PROJECT.
PARTS OF THE WETLANDS HAVE BEEN
MADE DESIGNATED BREEDING GROUNDS
AND TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
STURGEON FRY ARE RELEASED
INTO THE WATER TO HELP
REPLENISH DWINDLING NUMBERS.
LOCAL FISHERMEN ARE NOW OBLIGED
TO RETURN ANY STURGEON CAUGHT
BACK TO THE WATER.
BUT THESE EFFORTS MAY
BE TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE.
EXPERTS FEAR THAT THE RIVER
STURGEON IS DESTINED TO SUFFER
THE SAME FATE AS THE BAIJI
DOLPHIN, AN AQUATIC SPECIES
UNIQUE TO THE YANGTZE WHICH WAS
DECLARED FUNCTIONALLY EXTINCT
IN DECEMBER 2006.
THE BAIJI'S DISAPPEARANCE
AND THE DRASTIC DECLINE
OF FISH LIFE IN THE
YANGTZE ARE INDICATIVE
OF THE FAILING HEALTH
OF THEIR HABITAT.
AT SHANGHAI IT'S CLEAR THAT
THE CUMULATIVE EFFECTS
OF HUMAN INTERVENTION
ALONG THE RIVER'S COURSE
HAVE MADE THE
YANGTZE SICK.
AS IT APPROACHES THE END OF ITS
LONG JOURNEY THROUGH THE LAND
THE RIVER REACHES A
CRITICAL TURNING POINT.
THE THREE GORGES DAM HAS
CAUSED CHANGE AND PROGRESS
ALONG EVERY KILOMETER
OF THE YANGTZE'S ROUTE.
BUT IT HAS ALSO SPAWNED
A RATE OF DEVELOPMENT
WHICH THE RIVER CANNOT
PHYSICALLY SUSTAIN.
AS THE TREND CONTINUES,
70% OF THESE WATERS
COULD BE CLASSED
UNUSABLE WITHIN FIVE YEARS.
IF THE YANGTZE IS
EVER TO RECOVER,
DRASTIC CHANGE
IS NEEDED.
BUT NOW THE PATH TO
PROGRESS HAS BEEN SET.
THE RIVER AND THE
PEOPLE WHO DEPEND ON IT
ARE TRAPPED IN A POISONOUS
CYCLE OF GROWTH.
IT WAS INITALLY PREDICTED
THAT THE THREE GORGES
POWER STATION WOULD
PRODUCE ENOUGH ELECTRICITY
TO MEET A TENTH
OF CHINA'S NEEDS.
BUT THE PACE OF DEVELOPMENT
HAS EXCEEDED ALL EXPECTATION
AND DEMAND ALREADY
OUTSTRIPS SUPPLY.
TO SOLVE
THE PROBLEM,
YET MORE DAMS ARE
PLANNED FOR THE YANGTZE.
THE WEALTH AND THE
FUTURE OF CHINA
CONTINUE TO DEPEND ON
THIS INCREDIBLE RIVER.
BUT WHAT THAT FUTURE HOLDS
FOR THE RIVER AND ITS PEOPLE
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.